the
work here happened across 2020
it's been under different working groups
but
we clustered them together and i'll give
a quick overview of
ipfs on the web first so the most
important thing that happened to ipfs
ecosystem
browser-wise in my opinion is subdomain
support on our gateways working by
default
on our canonical public gateway
on a local host gateway it's important
because now we
are fully compatible with the security
model on the web
each content route identified by a cid
gets its own secure sandbox in a browser
out of the box without any third party
extensions it's just how the web
already works and we now aligned our
security
policy on the web with how browsers work
so each content route gets on
cookie store permissions are scoped to
the specifics content root
storage uh that solves also a huge
developer
experience pain that people had with
static website generators
and using relative paths all those
problems go away
and the cool thing about subdomain
gateways is that it's a drop in
replacement so
you can use them as a path based once
and you will get redirected to the
proper
subdomain in the
web browser context additional pain
point was
resource usage people have had problem
when they wanted to use js ipfs
in their website for multiple context
maybe across the tabs or maybe they
across different apps within the same
origin
it's now possible to reuse the single
ipfs
instance across different browser
contexts
mostly that will be within single origin
across
tabs however you may use those
npm modules for passing uh and
delegating ipfs
commands from different browser contexts
other than the regular browser
we've also improved browser import over
http api it's important because
a variety of http based deployments
exist in production right now
and there was a ceiling on how big of a
file you are able to
import over http api now that ceiling is
gone
you can import huge files four gigabytes
or more
on a devices with a little memory
without any double buffering
uh and additional perk of that is of
that work that happened this year
is that you get a real-time progress on
those uploads when you do ipfs ad over
http
api when you use uh ipfs http client and
that already shipped so
feel free to play with it um
that will be a bunch of important first
for ipfs in web browsers
uh so the the first time the ipfs uri
was resolved by a mainstream browser
happened this year oprah mobile
shipped support for ipfs uri you could
enter it in the address bar and it would
resolve
to a public gateway it's a mobile client
so
it was backed by public gateway
nevertheless it's a huge milestone to
have
out of the box support for our uri
uh in a mainstream browser and shortly
around that time brave was the first
browser to include one click
install of our browser extension and a
part of that work was also blessing our
browser extension with access to tcp and
udp sockets
which meant brave was the first browser
to have a full ipfs node
running in a browser process it had a
built-in http gateway was pretty
exciting
unfortunately google deprecated some of
the apis that we've used
for this experiment uh so we switched
gears
and for the second half of the year we
looked into a way to provide native
support in brave
that does not require running any
browser extension
so brave is the first
browser that has uri support
that's backed by a full ipfs node
so the first time you load ipfs uri in
brave
nightly uh it will ask you hey do you
want to run
uh ipfs node or do you want to resolve
this ipfs resource using a
third-party public gateway um
and it works so it's super exciting
because it's
landed in brave nightly just like uh
folks on the previous uh
talks mentioned uh this month and you
can play with it
uh it will be probably be refined so
it's not the best ux right now but
it will be much better when it ships in
hopefully january
huge milestone uri and full ipfs note in
a web browser
and we did not stop on
with that we want to make it
useful across all vendors so we started
a partnership with igalia who igaria are
a dev shop responsible for
such useful web platform features
as a css grid so we've been working with
them
um on known problems
that are protocol agnostic that would be
fixed
would benefit everyone but also would
remove any roadblocks
for ipfs presence or in the web platform
and we focused around our first
collaboration around protocol handler
api and identified a bunch of roadblocks
towards adoption of our uri schemes
and now at the end of 2020
uris are officially recognized by
international
standards bodies are safe listed in
chromium
so you can register them with a web plus
prefix and we also unified behavior of
localhost gateways
across vendors and browser context so
it's ongoing work but patches
already landed in firefox and you can
see here
when you load dns link website from a
local gateway
it's marked as a secure context it's a
huge deal
which means uh dns link websites loaded
from your local ipfs node
behave the same as you would load them
uh from the old school https
server and you got access to all web
apis so that's a huge
deal and we'll be continuing
collaboration with you guys going
forward
pinning services api spec landed and uh
just like mentioned
by the core implementations working
group um this is a step towards enabling
people
to easily delegate data persistence to a
third party
we we are working with pinning services
existing pinning services and we hope to
see more of them
to implement this api support for this
api will also land you know go ipfs 0.8
and in the future uh hopefully in the
beginning of 2021 it will land in
a web ui and iphone's desktop out of the
box
so uh be sure to play with it when you
see it's landing somewhere
um and during the year we've improved
our end-to-end
uh testing a really some donation i'll
just
keep it brief so uh web ui is now tested
against go ipfs and js ipfs in the
ci process so we catch any regressions
early and
ipfs desktop including signing for mac
os
and windows and notarization all that
stuff got automated so
you may see our team be able to deliver
more features because
uh all this stuff got automated and no
longer will take our time
and i believe now it's time to talk
about
iphone speaking speaking of ipfs kiwis
um we could talk about the changes that
we made to ipvs gooeys
over the last year but it would take
about 45 hours
so we're just going to run through a
couple of the highlights um
revamped ipfs companion we made so many
changes to companion this year which is
awesome
reworked all of the preps that made a
huge difference but added new menu items
for
shareable snapshot and ipfs path links
where those are appropriate
so those appear in the menu you'll see
that in the animation really just
streamline the ui
everywhere there's a more useful welcome
screen you can get to that by clicking
the cube in your browser drop down menu
also add in manual opt-in and opt-out
lists in prefs um
you can still do this on a per site
basis with the toggle but you can also
do that straight from prefs if you just
want to paste in a big old list
the preps get their own easier to use
page that's consistent across all
browsers
and we also fixed uh the peculiar but
extremely annoying case where you had
error messaging and firefox specifically
which forced lower cases cidv0s when you
paste them in so we gave
a companion a very specific era message
indicating when you might have done that
uh next slide please and um
really just onboarding improvements
galore i mean that sounds sort of glib
but for real we spent most of our focus
in 2020
doing things that were going to make it
easier to get started using ipfs
no matter what your intent was with ipfs
so that focused on a lot of onboarding
enhancements too
anything that was ipfs that has a gui on
it in particular web ui and desktop
lots of accessibility improvements
across the board
uh better map and table data on the
pierce page and we've also got some more
peers page improvements that should be
hidden early in the new year just as
soon as we wrap those up
a cli tutor mode which was actually
given to us by a wonderful
community contributor so if you want to
learn the cli
through ipfs desktop there's some
shortcuts for that
better breadcrumbs with drag and drop
and all sorts of other good stuff
and then just lots of other little bits
of ui happiness also improve the gateway
directory pages that you'll see
anywhere and everywhere that you use
ipfs through gateway
um dist dot ipfs.io is easier to use
also works in your phone and like so
many more other things
next please and this is sort of boring
but it's actually really important
we started coordinating issue tracking
across 13 gui related repos
which means that we've got both a better
tactical response to things that
break or or change as well as a better
strategic response
uh we had a 48-hour maximum response
time on all new issues
a weekly triage for a synchronous triage
that we made sure nothing fell through
the cracks
uh but the really good thing about this
is coordinating all of these rupees
together at once
gave us visibility into the most
important
work streams for 2021 such as
the next slide please this is going to
be so cool
and it's coming very very soon is full
pinning service support in
desktop and web ui so this is the
pending services api
baked into web ui and desktop so you can
add any pinning service that
uses this pending services api uh you
can use web yarn desktop
to pin files to your local node your
pinning services of choice or both
there are nice little indicators in the
file screen so that you can know what is
and isn't pinned
and uh future releases used soon tm
will include some rules-based auto
uplining which is going to be
super super convenient um i could tell
you so many
other things but i think i would get
yanked off the stage so just a big old
shout out to everybody who helped us
this year
and look forward to 2021.